feat: allow transaction finalize called multiple times (#13014)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-10-16-repeat-payment-finalize.md

---
title: Repeat payment finalize
issue: #12593
---
# Core

> * Added `src/Core/Migration/V6_7/Migration1760438732AddConsumedToPaymentToken.php`, which introduces a new consumed column to the payment_token table to track token usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Added `src/Core/Migration/V6_7/Migration1760438732AddConsumedToPaymentToken.php`, which introduces a new consumed column to the payment_token table to track token usage.

Reviewer 2: are all those points relevant for externals to know? Remember, that the purpose of a changelog is not to describe every step you made.

> * Added `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cleanup/CleanupPaymentTokenTask.php`, a scheduled task that runs daily to clean up expired tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cleanup/CleanupPaymentTokenTask.php` to daily clean up old payment tokens.
```

> * Added the feature flag `REPEATED_PAYMENT_FINALIZE` to enable the new behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added the feature flag `REPEATED_PAYMENT_FINALIZE` to enable repeated calls to the `/payment-finalize` step without running into errors.
```

> * Changed `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Controller/PaymentController.php` to perform an early return if a token has already been consumed, preventing redundant finalizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Controller/PaymentController.php` to redirect to the finalize url if the payment token was already used.
```

> * Changed `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cart/Token/JWTFactoryV2.php and src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cart/Token/TokenStruct.php` to support the new consumed logic and ensure consistency during token creation and handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cart/Token/TokenStruct.php` to add a `consumed` flag to it. 
* Changed `src/Core/Checkout/Payment/Cart/Token/JWTFactoryV2.php` check for a tokens `consumed` flag instead of deleting the token.
```

___
# Upgrade Information

> ## Payment Token Management

Reviewer 2: all `##` headlines will be extracted standalone into the upgrade files. so make sure they work out without the context of this changelog file. 

looking at the `## Cleanup Task` and the text in the major section has no headline at all

### Database Schema
A new consumed column has been added to payment_token. Run migrations after upgrading.
### Token Finalization
Finalizing the same token multiple times will no longer result in an error, if the token is valid and has already been processed.
## Cleanup Task

> A new scheduled task will automatically remove expired and consumed tokens to keep the database clean.

Reviewer: To many headlines here. Maybe rewrite with the following order:
- What was changed? => Allowing multiple finalize calls - behind feature flag
- How? => consumed flag for payment token
- Side-effects? => payment tokens will not be deleted anymore, task will handle that

___
# Next Major Version Changes

> The feature flag will be removed and the behavior become standard

Reviewer: same as `Upgrade Information`, but without mentioning the feature flag
